The ri-util library mostly contains functions (methods) related to objects
part of PIPS internal representation.

allocatable.c: support functions for the ALLOCATABLE instruction of
Fortran 95

arguments.c: management of entity lists; it's called "arguments" for
historical reason; the package was developped within the transformer
library to handle transformer arguments;

attachment_pretty_print.c: used by the emacs graphical interface to
display information on demand; TO BE CHECKED BY RONAN KERYELL

bound_generation.c: conversion of Linear constraint systems into
expressions; should be C anf Fortran compatible

clean.c: fucntions to remove entities from the symbol table; used by
the parsers when a parser error is encountered

clone_statement.c: unlike copy_statement(), clone_statements takes
care of concsistency issues with the symbol table and with labels. TO
BE CHECKED AND DOCUMENTED BY SERGE IN THE C FILE]

cmfortran.c: prettyprint loops with Cray Fortran syntax

constant.c: functions dealing with constant expressions and concstant entities

contrainte_to_text.c:

control.c: utilities to deal with the control graph, e.g. to scan all
nodes of a graph; used mostly by the controlizer and by unspaghetify
(see control library), but also by all analysis libraries because they
need to wlak the control flow graphs

convex_hull.c: should be moved into llinear

craft.c: prettyprint of loops in CRAFT style

declarations.c: prettyprint of declarations based on the text library;
used for C nd Fortran

entity.c: functions dealing with the Newgen object entity; there all
kinds of entities in PIPS; see also: constant.c for entities
representing constants, variable.c for entities representing program
variables (i.e. not related to the Newgen object called "variable",
which is part of the type description)

eval.c: static evaluation of expressions; fails if the expression's
value is not statically known

expression.c: functions dealing with expressions (see ri.pdf).

extension.c: functions dealing with the Newgen objects "extension",
which are part of "statement"; they are used to encode pragmas.

fortran90.c: prettyprint of loops as Fortran 90 array expressions

hpfc.c: handling of special entities for the HPF compiler

instruction.c: functions dealing with the Newgen object "instruction",
which is part of "statement"; see ri.pdf

loop.c: functions about loops and list of loops, loop being understood
as DO loops with a Fortran semantics; while, repeat and for loops are
not (yet) handled in this file.

misc_paf_utils.c: various functions used by the array data flow graph
libraries to generate code from a schedule; they bridge linear algebra
and PIPS internal representation, as well as new variable
declarations, etc. Limited to Fortran for the time being.

module.c: functions dealing with entities representing modules
9a.k.a. functions) and with their names (i.e. the field name of entity
in the case the entity represents a module); also consistency checks
for declarations

normalize.c: functions to build the "normalize" field of "expression"
from the "syntax" field; see ri.pdf

ordering.c: functions to manage the "ordering" field of "statement";
ordering is built and used to represent the textual ordering of
statemsnts; it must be kept consistent explictly (see function
module_body_reorder()) after program transformation; see also ri.pdf,
section about statements.

pragma.c: functions dealing with pragmas; they are embedded in
"extension"; see ri.pdf and extension.c

prettyprint.c: prettyprint many parts of the internal representation
either in Fortran or in C

replace.c: fucntions to substitute a variable o by a variable n in all
its occurences within a statement

size.c: functions to compute the size in bytes of a variable v or of
an object of type t; it is not always possible because of dependent
types

statement.c: functions dealing with the "statement" Newgen object and
with lists of statements; see ri.pdf and instruction.c

static.c: management of static variables shared by all PIPS
phases/passes; they are used to store the current function, current
function name, current statement,... Beware of consistency: these
variables must be reset at each phase/pass termination

type.c: functions dealing with the "type" Newgen object.

unstructured.c: functions dealing with the "unstructured" Newgen
object (see ri.pdf)

util.c: functions dealing with the names of entities; a lot of
information is stored in an entity name; see ri.pdf, the section about
entity; functions dealing with filenames are also located in this
file; functions dealing with label names are also found here; as well
as functions dealing with formal parameters; and functions dealing
with comments; most of these functions deal with strings, but it is
mostly a pot-pourri. It should be broken into entity_name.c,
comment.c,...

variable.c: functions dealing with entities representing program
variables; see entity.c
